# A_Disastrous_Project
A Time Series analysis of all Natural disasters from 1900-2023
This project aimed to explore the EM-DAT Natural Disasters Dataset, which contains data on natural disasters worldwide over the past 100 years. The short-term goals were to understand the usability of the dataset, conduct statistical tests to establish relationships between different attributes, and explore the overall importance of features. The long-term goals were to build a pipeline to make the data more usable for various applications and assess the possibility of building a model to predict the extent of damages that a particular disaster can cause in a particular part of the world.

It was found that the data has limited usability due to a large number of missing values in several variables, and data collection methods need improvement. However, damages were well assessed within certain timeframes, and Africa and Asia are the worst-hit continents when it comes to the frequency and extent of disasters. The project conducted various statistical tests to check and establish relationships between different attributes and successfully built a pipeline to help clean, sort, and make the data more usable for various applications.

Additionally, it was also found that a model to predict the extent of damages that a particular disaster can cause is possible only with better data. The project also assessed the possibility of predicting which continents are prone to what kind of disasters so that governments can build better precautionary and disaster management measures. Asia, Africa, and America seem to have the most amount of disasters, and floods, storms, and earthquakes top the charts.

Ultimately, these main findings showed that data collection has improved considerably over time, but most factors that help make data-backed conclusions are left with much ambiguity. It is important to disclose data manipulation while presenting results to determine the credibility of the said results. Prediction is possible only with better data, but this still does not guarantee that vulnerable nations will be better prepared. Governments have to actively take action and fund third-world nations as natural disasters cannot be curbed. The biggest thing learned from this dataset is the fact that even after 100 years, a significant amount of damage and loss of life still happens, which shows the truly unpredictable nature of natural disasters.
